1.	Change the way spaces are used and take away things as well as add new things.   
2.	Coastal management is about enabling people and nature to live happily and viably.    
3.	Managing coast community is a global issue Coastal protection is buying time to recreate existing and past communities in new locations.  
4.	Safety is important for people living on the coast. 
5.	Ensuring access to the coast/beaches  
6.	Some communities may not have the problem of land disappearing but may have other issues such as maintaining infrastructure and social housing.              
7.	People may resist change because they don't see it until it impacts them  
8.	People appreciate the coast in different ways and for different reasons. 
9.	Their goal is to make sure everyone can interact with it in the way they value it. 
10.	Infrastructure needs in North Norfolk include highways and utilities such as power and transport.         
11.	There is a gap/ disconnection between planning processes and providers of infrastructure.    Rules and regulations around planning and moving may be inflexible when it comes to helping people whose houses are at risk of falling into the sea.    
12.	There is a need for better integration and support for communities being affected by coastal changes.    
13.	The situation is currently reactive rather than proactive.  
14.	there has been a lack of coordination when it comes to dealing with issues on the coast.      
15.	There is a need to move from being reactive to being proactive when it comes to coastal infrastructure.  
16.	Creativity and free thinking are what we should be doing but money is a constraint when it comes to achieving what needs to be done. 
17.	There is recognition of unique problems and a willingness to show how they can be dealt with so others can follow.         
18.	Relocation can provide an opportunity for improvements such as better quality and more affordable housing     
19.	There is a need for guidance, direction and support to local authorities in their efforts to provide solutions for coastal issues.  
20.	There is a need for the ability to design a sustainable coastline.     
21.	Do not lock in foreseeable future risks. 
22.	There is a need for temporary or movable uses of space to avoid pushing another crisis down the road  
23.	keep coastal communities sustainable and vibrant while gradually rolling back         Design new areas with information about the history of the place             
24.	it is not just a coastal issue and that it needs to be addressed by a broader organization.                At institutional level, there is a need for social scientists in coastal team to understand what makes up a community       
25.	The goal is to deliver adaptation through a local authority in an integrated way         
26.	There is need to start building infrastructure along the coast,   
27.	Building infrastructure for tourists in areas where the coastline is developing and more accessible,   
28.	there's a need for forward thinking rather thatn reaction. Eg. Beach wheelchair access, toilet.  
29.	A solution for the car park entrance that might be compromised in the future due to coastal erosion  
30.	A solution that is mobile and adaptable to unpredictable coastal erosion       Consideration of the cost in a localized sense           
31.	There are hot spots of intense or acute change that require short, medium, and long-term planning and do proactive planning about it    
32.	The scales at which these issues are looked at include time scales and spatial scales. 
33.	A small segment of frontage may need to be considered in the context of a broader sense due to potential impacts on people or infrastructure.      
34.	There is a need for trust in planning for long-term changes, as processes can occur more rapidly than anticipated.       
35.	A village where the infrastructure for tourism, such as car parks and toilets, is under threat due to coastal changes. However, there are no long-term plans in place to address this issue.  Green infrastrucutre is important because people value it and it attracts visitors to certain locations, creating pressure on the value of the site.    
36.	There is a need for beach access when there are facilities such as car parks and coffee vans, but this can be complicated by issues such as private land ownership.   
37.	There is no beach access and people are creating problems by walking on the dunes.        
38.	The council’s role is to facilitate and support private landowners in their plans. 
39.	There are institutional issues and constraints that hinder problem-solving. 
40.	The community is trying to be flexible and proactive but facing limitations    
41.	Renewable energy and offshore wind farms could connect to avoid digging up other countries multiple times.   
42.	There is a suggestion for a levy from the wind farms to contribute to dealing with problems because public funds are not enough.   
43.	There is talk about infrastructure and gas coming from interconnects and going to Europe.               
44.	Go on research to look at offshore hydrogen production and carbon sequestration          
45.	The relationship between the council and the community has improved due to the escaping scheme                    
46.	There are issues around flood risk management in the western part of the district, including the disappearance of salt marshes and the potential conversion of freshwater grazing marshes to salt marshes for coastal protection.     
47.	Some places that used to be important ports have had to adapt due to changes in harbors and rivers.     
48.	The council may not have much involvement with communities in these issues but should still be part of the conversation. 
49.	*WHEELCHAIRS WHICH ALLOW PEOPLE TO GO ON THE BEACH AND INTO THE SEA
50.	*CONTINUED ACCESS TO THE BEACH: WITHOUT IT WILL LOSE TOURISM, ECONOMIES, 
51.	*PUBIC TRANSPORT
52.	*BUILD ON CYCLE ROUTES FOR AN INFRASTUCTURE FOR BIKES WITH NETWORKS OF LANES. INCLUDING LIMITING CARS.
53.	*ACCESS TO SAFE CYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE, INCLUDING AFFORDABLE HELMETS
54.	*BUILDING AROUND ‘POSITIVE FUTURES’ LIKE WITH ELECTRIC BUSES. GIVING PEOPLE CHOICES TO BE ENVIRONEMNTAL.
55.	 GIVING PEOPLE CHOICES TO BE ENVIRONEMNTAL.
56.	*SEA DEFENCES IN SOME PLACES
57.	*FLEXIBLE ACCESS TO BEACHES KNOWING IT WILL KEEP CHANGING (AS CLIFFS ERODE)
58.	they somehow think people don’t see the importance of those natural capital and its conservation benefits because they're not disturbed
59.	*PREVENTING OR PLANNING FOR VILLAGES BECOMING ‘DEAD ENDS’ WHEN ROADS ARE LOST TO CLIFF EROSION
60.	*PLANNING AHEAD FOR NEW WAYS OF CONNECTING SETTLEMENTS AFTER SOME ROADS ARE LOST TO COASTAL EROSION
61.	*MAKING SURE PEOPLE CAN THRIVE IN FUTURE CONDITIONS.
62.	*OBVIOULSY ENSURING INTERNET PROVISION IS GOOD: IT WILL BE KEY
63.	*INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH GIVES US CHOICES WHICH ALLOW US TO BE AUTHENTIC, HAVE  TRANSPORT CHOICES, AND SUPPLY CHAINS THAT WORK (SO, LOCAL).
64.	*INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH PROVIDES SECURITY OF SUPPLY (DIVERSIFICATION)
65.	*DIVERSE ENERGY SOURCES (INCLUDING RENEWABLES)
66.	*COORDINATION IN INFRASTRUCUTRE SUCH AS CABLES COMING ASHORE FROM OFFSHORE POWER SUPPLIES.
67.	passive policies do not work
68.	government can not afford … relocation strategy in a long ter
69.	they're facing a problem that if some individuals don’t want that, then would you care? How to deal with that?
70.	government facilitates communities not "helicopter in"
71.	* THRIVING COMMUNITIES AND VERSATILE COMMUNITIES.
72.	some communities maybe marginalized communities who like being on the edge
73.	*ACCESS TO BEACHES, EVEN MORE THAN DEFENCES
74.	*CONNECTIVITY TO HIGHWAYS (IT’S HARD) (AFTER LOSS OF ROADS FROM COASTAL EROSION)
75.	"*GREEN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE, EXPECIALLY E-BIKES, BUT IT HAS TO BE MADE SAFE!
76.	*CYCLE PATHS NETWORKS ACROSS FIELDS                                                       *CYCLE PATHS AROUND THE COAST
77.	*CYCLING FOR HEALTH AND WELL-BEING "
78.	*STRESS ASSOCIATED WITH UNCERTAINTY OF COASTAL EROSION PLANS HAS KNOCKON TO HEALTH SYSTEM
79.	*HOUSING IS AN ISSUE: NONE FOR YOUNG AND LOCAL PEOPLE
80.	*MOVABLE HOUSES, MAYBE PRE-FABS; LOW-COST; MANY YOUNG PEOPLE HAPPY TO HAVE THEM; MOVE EVERY FEW YEARS
81.	*MAKE USE OF TEMPORARY LAND, I.E. WHICH IS GOING TO BE COASTAL-INSECURE IN A FEW YEARS, BUT FINE FOR A WHILE; THEN MOVE INLAND A BIT.

82.	*MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT FOR COASTAL IMPACTS ON LIVES – LOSING HOUSES; MOVING"	mental health support for coastal impacts on lives
83.	*CONNECTIVITY OF PEOPLE TO PEOPLE FOR INTERACTIONS *CONNETIVITY OF SETTLEMENTS TO EACH OTHER	improve connectivity for older people in the district through community clubs and outreach programs.
84.	*LOST COMMUNITY SERVICES	lost community services
85.	*QUALITY OF LIFE, MOSTLY RELATED TO COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES	infrastructure issues should be addressed with a focus on improving the quality of life
86.		community balance is a priority in corporate plans
87.		engage more people
88.	*COMMUNITY CENTRES ARE CRUCIAL HERE.	community centers are crucial
89.		a challenge for Addressing quality of life issues beyond physical infrastructure which is more difficult
90.		a desire for environmental initiatives including green corridiors which connect green spaces they have
91.	*BETTER BUS CONNECTIONS	better bus connections
92.	*PHYSICAL ISOLATION IS A BIG PROBLEM	Isolation and distance between individual areas is a challenge that needs to be addressed
93.	*BROADBAND CONNECTIVITY IS VERY IMPORTANT	Broadband connectivity is important for enabling remote communication and interaction.
94.		Online meeting tools are useful
95.		during the lockdown  of COVID, a demand for property searches and surveys 
96.		internet services in some places need to be improved 
97.	*BETTER PATHWAYS WITHIN THE VILLAGE WITHOUT THE CARS, E.G. TO TAKE KIDS TO SCHOOL…	Providing options for transportation other than cars 
98.	*BETTER BUSES BETWEEN VILLAGES	 improve connectivity within and between villages.
99.		pronounced needs in the medical sector and well-developed medical services in towns
100.		broadband internet enable people live and work at home
101.	* JOBS FOR LOCAL PEOPLE: LARGE-SCALE NEED	support for local employment (recruite internally first and advertise locally) 
102.	*AFFORDABLE HOUSING 	affordable houses are important
103.		 converting buildings and car parks into temporary housing
104.	*MAKING VILLAGE HALLS/ CHURCHES AS HUBS FOR THEIR COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES	
105.		supporting facilities such as training and guidance should be provided to help communities better help themselves
106.		Existing community buildings such as village halls or churches could be used as hubs
107.		There are hierarchical relationships between different levels of government that can make it difficult to address issues such as transport and infrastructure.
108.	*MAKE NEIGHBOURHOOD PLANS STRONGER: LET THEM SERVE THE PLANNING NEEDS TO SUPPORT THE INNER VILLAGES	a neighborhood plan based on community needs can be stronger in addressing local issues than government
109.	*NEED TO BE ABLE TO LINK & SUPPORT IFFERENT LEVELS OF PLANNING BETTER, E.G. COMMUNITY NEIGHBOURHOOD PLANS AND COUNTY LEVELS	reducing bureaucratic layers and improving communication and collaboration between different levels of government
110.	*A BETTER SYSTEM TO IMPLEMENT ROLLBACK – MOVING PEOPLE’S HOUSES AWAY FROM THE CLIFFS.	it's a challenge to involve in a new neighborhood when the family move into a new place
111.	*INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE COUNCILS AT ALL LEVELS ACCOUNTABLE – PROPERLY ACCOUNTABLE, MUCH MORE THAN LATEST CODE OF CONDUCT                     *ACCOUNTABLE IN DIFFERENT WAYS: TO THE PEOPLE, TO EACH OTHER	There is a need for accountability from counselors to each other and community 	counselors are accountable to people and community
112.		There is a need for a national framework to support it	
113.		There is a desire for integrity in the behavior of people involved in local politic	heartbroken on occasions due to the way town councils work
114.			used to feel a sense of community when working with groups in local politics but now feels that people behave without integrity
115.	*INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE COUNCILS AT ALL LEVELS ACCOUNTABLE – PROPERLY ACCOUNTABLE, MUCH MORE THAN LATEST CODE OF CONDUCT   	code of conduct is not enough	the government has been dismissive but the code of product is weak
116.	*COUNSELLORS AND LOCAL OFFICERS NEED MUCH MORE SUPPORT FROM EXPERIENCED OR EXPERT ADVISERS ESPECIALLY FOR DECISIONS WITH LEGAL IMPLICATIONS.	local governence officers want to get their own responsibilities right before getting involved in matters outside their remit	
117.		local governence officers feel unsupported. Child support has to be taken out because other levels couldn't help them 
118.		They feel on their own while making big decisions, little support	
119.	*BETTER INFRASTRUCTURE TO JOIN UP TIERS OF GOVERNMENT	Infrastructures to join up the tiers of government 	
120.			Climate change is becoming more relevant and prevalent on their agendas and discussions.
121.			they've got a climate committee
122.		They realized that rising sea levels which might result in the loss of a beach by 2050 and finding creative and sustainable ways to use their land.	
123.		small actions can have a big impact	town councils may not be best placed to do much about sea defenses
124.		There is a need for those small parish councils to join with other councils to create a network of coastal areas to share expertise and learn from each other. 	
125.		more erosion and changes are observed 	 
126.		climate change is inevitable to happed	
127.		They realize that poverty, disadvantage and climate change are all tied up together	
128.		They are confident although it can feel overwhelming to address them on a global scale, we have the potential to find solutions and turn things around.	
129.	*WE NEED A TOTALLY DIFFERENTLY ORGANISED SOCIETY: PROSPERITY RATHER THAN GROWTH	a totally different organization in society with equity in all aspects and prosperity rather than growth	
130.	*WE NEED A DE-GROWTH ECONOMY
131.		To solve the tied issues, government should plan to spend money on right place right thing
132.	*ELECTORAL CHANGE: MORE LIKE A REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY	electoral change(not a representative democracy	
133.	*NO USE TO TRY TO CHANGE SYSTEMS LIKE HEALTH OR ENVIRONMENT: NO-ONE LISTENED TO THE DIMBLBY REPORT! 	the failure to enact over 50% of the recommendations in a publich health strategy which has a very low satisfaction rate (Dimbiby report)	vulnerable group: farmers, children in school
134.		The lack of will to make changes such as a 60% uplift in school dinner provision.	
135.	*SUCH BIG CHANGES ARE NEEDED FOR REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY TO HAPPEN: MEDIA AND EDUCATION STRUCTURES WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE	 *SUCH BIG CHANGES ARE NEEDED FOR REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY TO HAPPEN: MEDIA AND EDUCATION STRUCTURES WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE	
136.		climate change policies should make people equal, it's a global issue	
137.		nn5- There is a gap in between what is being said and what is being done that needs to be filled.	that North Norfolk District Council is making positive statements but there has been little progress.
138.	 there needs to be more structure to bring  ideas together and draw more people in.	
139.	 support different environmental groups rather than trying to merge them together.	
140.	Find a coordinator with an overview of what each group is doing and how they fit into the whole picture.	
141.	Provide enough funding 	
142.		church councils has very little authority
143.	Use renewable energy sources such as heat pumps and wind farms to supply energy to communities.	The overarching goal is environmental 
144.	The area should aim to be environmentally friendly without relying on fossil fuels.	
145.	Providing more renewable energy sources in an envrionmentally sustainable way	
146.	the need for an optional transmission network	the impact of mind farms destroys the environment
147.	switch to electric trains and buses to reduce fossil fuel use.	
148.		this group support an integrated way and they're looking at biodiversity
149.	there is a need for an integrated approach to environmental issues but not sure if North Norfolk District Council has grasped this need	
150.	Funding is a challenge for integration	
151.	Paricipatory is also a challenge, there is a need to find a better way, better than meeting 	necessary evil: meetings are not enjoyable but are necessary for the group to achieve progress in their environmental initiatives.
152.	For cc infras, There is a gap that needs to be filled by schools in terms of education and involvement in biodiversity.	
153.		They don’t actually what school is doing now, but the involvement is important
154.	get schools  participating in biodiversity by exposing youngsters to nature at an early age through activities such as forest schools.	Some families may not have the opportunity to experience nature due to their location or habits.
155.	Community groups face challenges in obtaining funds for day-to-day running costs.	
156.	There is a need for an environmental support fund to support the running of various groups and provide focus on integrating them.	
157.	The council (NNDC) should fund a number of environmental champions who are energetic, well-qualified people with good interpersonal skills and can inspire, raise awareness of the issue	
158.	NNDC has an environmental project officer and an environment policy officer but their effectiveness in integrating environmental concerns into council decisions is questioned.	
159.	Infrasturcutre for environmental protection is a priority need because its urgent and there is no second chance	
160.		The district council has had a history of disagreement and resignations which has affected its effectiveness
161.	There is a need for an independent environmental body that is apolitical and oversees environmental concerns regardless of which political party is in control.	
162.	The national government’s environmental agency may not be sufficient and there is a need for more hands-on and local involvement.	party politics kind of influence the implementation of policies
163.	NN is small enough to be a model of good practice for others to follow.	
164.	ambitious targets for net zero emissions and plastic reduction	
165.	 outside incentives like prizes, awards	
166.	public money should be used for public goods	
167.	woodland is important for mental health	
168.	people need to be recognized and rewarded for their delivery of environmental benefits	
169.	Having an awarding agency is tough, but the district councial should ve assessed on environmental benefits, for example, social return on investment	
170.		anything that entails more paperwork and the need to show proof if they are being assessed.
171.	need to value land based on its ability to sequester carbon and water and prevent flooding.
172.	 connectivity of green spaces in infrastructure planning.	
173.	a higher authority overruled district and county council development plans for housing.
174.	 fragmentation of different groups working on environmental issues and the need for coordination.	
175.	having an environmental champion for each area to ensure that resources and knowledge are shared and that efforts are not overlapping	
176.	need for a biodiversity tsar or champion to hold everything together and set relative priorities.
177.	the current agency and its director should improve their influence	
178.	more time and human resources would be needed	
179.	volunteering should be encouraged	
180.	there could be a mechanism whereby it was a requirement for employers 	
181.	every organization should have someone responsible for the environment or green issues	
182.		 a radical overhaul of the infrastructure might be needed to deliver environmental benefits and wonders how this could be done
183.	No pathways for residents to cycle and walk	government encourages, but nowhere to do it, and considering the average age is old
184.	there is a need for better and more frequent buses within and between villages 	
185.	better and for companies to invest in green infrastructure.	
186.	Norfolk is not resilient due to high levels of child deprivation and unaffordable housing	
187.	Employers are struggling to find employees because they cannot afford to live in the area and there is no decent transport for those who live further out	
188.	concerns about flooding and the impact on elderly people on fixed incomes.	
189.	Rollback can take pristine land and plot development on it which can harm the environme	
190.	North Norfolk District Council need to build more roads to take all people 	
191.	comprehensively compare the benefits and exceptions	The plan allows development with negative effects only if benefits outweigh detriments but doesn’t define exceptions.
192.	There is concern that benefits will be used to justify building houses despite environmental costs.	
193.	it's difficult to start from the benefits of marginalized groups and forward a big picture	
194.	There is a need for a visionary to set an example and provide a plan for others to buy into and environmental issues are global and high-cost	
195.	New physical infrastructure should not further fragment the environment	
196.	Development should increase the connectivity 	
197.	there is a need for mechanism to make individuals and parish councils and locals and small groups have their voices	
198.	There needs to be a two-way interface between top-down and bottom-up communication	
199.	Big infrastructure projects or political decisions should consider the benefit to future generations (sustainable)	
200.	Environmental councils should be made up of younger people to science	
201.		while young people may be naive about financial costs, they can cut through some of the “crap” and ask why things can’t be done.
202.	There is a need for citizens assembling and biases towards young
203.	what children have to say about their needs and education are also important	
204.		there're challenges young people facing in finding time to participate in environmental and societal issues due to financial concerns and busy schedules.
205.	 incorporating volunteering as part of the school curriculum to help young people get involved.
206.	the important needs for volunteers in schools and society to support operation and services such as food bank
207.	NN6- Strengthen connectivity between organizations in health	little connections between social care, physical health and mental health support group
208.	need for more social prescribing, community (health) connectors	Some people who support health and wellbeing across the community
209.	Find a coordinator for isolated/disabled people to help or encourage them to take part in activities	
210.	Advocating for increased funding for community coordinators and social prescribing programs	small/coastal towns economic development are important
211.	Supporting trade associations and initiatives aimed at promoting economic development in small towns.	
212.	a coordinated approach or a coordinator for residents, visitors and traders	to have holiday events? Commercial activities?
213.	connected bus service within the urban	care for elders
214.	lower the price of bus services	the cost is high for young people but elders are free 
215.	variety of routes	
216.	tokens for taxis	for those people who can't access bus or not fit enough to get on the bus
217.	short distance shuttle type transport services	
218.	localized, integrated, connected transport service systems 	community transport
219.	convinient, connected transport services for elders/disable groups	make sure people can access public transport then they can decide to choose 
220.	enable government to understand what residents' need	get them to know - connectivity, facilitator, funding…
221.	connect the segmented services	there're big gaps within small fields, bubbles
222.	a place to run community group work make all services all interlinked	
223.	long-term solutions	
224.	connected health services in different areas	different health care provides different service but they're not connected
225.	access to mental health care	
226.	coordinator for connection:  community side of connection, which is to do with health and well being	
227.	coordinator for connection:   commute the town in terms of its local economy	because they are in international if we're gonna have healthy workforce and all that kind of thing and housing comes into it.
228.	Housing crisis due to high number of second homes, causing shortage of staff in hospital, shops and restaurants	housing crisis now causes shortage of labor,maybe investing in training and education programs to develop a skilled workforce
229.	Implementing rent control measures to prevent excessive rent increases	1. Rents have increased to unaffordable levels for many people, make many people live in debt  2.Reduced stock of housing due to 30% being second homes or holiday lets
230.	Increasing the availability of affordable housing through new construction or conversion of existing properties	right now they buy houses from the housing providers because this is the only way to purchase houses cheaply
231.	limiting the number of second homes or holiday lets	 It's gonna cause a divide and that divide will cause so many other problems. I don't have no idea if the governments aware of this, but it's well known that makes circles when we get the genie factor moving is the best way towards really bad things happening in the country.but I don't why not be second homes. It could be third, 4th and 5th. I know, yeah.
232.		The government is reluctant to interfere with people’s right to invest and live where they want
233.	Emphasis on adaptation and relocation 	rather than protecting the coastline, because it's not viable
234.	"Coastal road is an important economic highway for tourism and wildlife
235.	"	Concerns about losing the coastal road due to coastal erosion
236.	Coastal road is hugely important"	1. Move toward hydeogen brings the concerns about the removal of infrastructure such as the coastal road 2.Transition Accelerated Fund in North Norfolk to address issues, but not sure about whether the fund will address infrastructure on a grand scale
237.	The NDC is trying to bring more high-paying jobs into the area to address this issue in the long term.
238.	exploring options for affordable housing."	Large population on minimum wage who are paying high rents while sharing accommodations
239.	food bank	
240.	hidden poverty	Although people are living in an immaculate house, it could be other's second home. Extended family can't afford to move out.
241.	insulation for house	old and cold
242.	again affording housing is a big issue	
243.		the challenges faced by coastal towns with large populations of retirees who do not have family nearby and rely on community organizations for support.
244.	housing pressure from people outside	increased demand for housing as people move out of big cities due to COVID
245.	build the capacity of parish and towncouils to effectively manage the local community	Devolution and its reliance on parish and town councils. They may not be capable of effectively managing their local communities
246.	more responsibilities should be given to district councils because they can respond more effectively at a local level than county councils	istrict councils have the best understanding of their local communities and can respond effectively to their needs, for example during COVID
247.	 strengthening the district and borough model by creating combined authorities like Norfolk and Suffolk	
248.	parish councils should be nonpolitical and that politics should be removed from them	politics causes problems because people fight for their own causes instead of working together and party politics prevents things from getting done properly
249.	Engaging individuals and organizations with differing viewpoints to try to find common ground and work towards mutually beneficial solutions, don’t let party politics hinder local development	1.the participant's organization has an issue with conservative county council, their requests are often denied (maybe because she joined another party)                          Current MP are political-naïve and more like a puppet
250.	NN7 The group discusses infrastructure needs, including more affordable housing and improvements to the banking system.
251.	Banking system is online, which is unfriendly to elderly people. There is a suggestion for banks to provide more options for customers who prefer paper statements.
252.	The participants have mixed opinions  on the quality of the bus service
253.	 planning ahead is important for using it effectively. There is a need for better support from the council
254.	The participants realize climate change is going to bring problems, people may need to move off
255.	The heat is a big problem, it will melt the glaciers and then rise the sea level, as a result many coastal towns will disappear.
256.	NN8 Infrastructure includes hospitals, schools, health care is their frist reaction
257.	Housing policy is also a potential need
258.	Lack of money/fund prevent them from doing things for the community
259.	There is a shortage of dentists and general practitioners (GPs)
260.	there are more people in medical school, but not enough jobs in hospitals for them once they qualify
261.	There is a need for social care for the elderly, including more places in care homes and at an afforadable cost
262.	there is a need for local hospital provision and suggests that hospital staff should be more constant
263.	For people without cars, it's difficult to travel to hospitals.
264.	Hospitals should be more centralized, more connected
265.	It's difficult to travel to hospitals for regular therapy, there is a need for expanding existing hospital car services to transport people to and from hospitals
266.	 the need for improved public transport, including more frequent buses
267.	holidaymakers use their bus passes to get free transport, and suggests that the government could require people to pay a standard fare when using their bus pass outside of their own area
268.	buses are often full of holidaymakers and that the driver would not have taken any fares
269.	 the need for improved public transport, including more frequent buses
270.	there is a need for more public transport, particularly for environmental reasons
271.	The housing cost is so high that people can't afford to live in certain area, especially young people.
272.	 many houses are being turned into Airbnbs, which is causing problems and suggests that there should be some sort of regulation, such as requiring them to pay business rates
273.	There is a need for infrastructure that supports young people to live
274.	Better WiFi for people who work from home
275.	The loss of post office causes some inconvinience
276.	the loss of banks and how many people are expected to do everything online, which can be difficult for some elderly people.
277.	the need for better public transport, particularly for those who do not have cars 
278.	The participants acknowledged the issue of coastal erosion and agree there is a need for government to take action
279.	Families have spent a small fortune  on protecting the back and gas tunnel from the sea
280.	Electric cars could be a solution to climate change but there are issues with generating capacity and the use of farmland for solar farms 
281.	Public buildings such as churches could must consider rain collection and have solar panels installed on their roofs
282.	Large companies such as B&Q and Amazon should have to include climate mitigation measures at no cost to the taxpayer
283.	The cost of living makes many people can't afford to live here, so less people to support the elder world
284.	The group discusses the need for more affordable electric cars and better infrastructure for charging them in town centers
285.	people in town centers may not have access to charging points for electric cars 
286.	there is the issue of lack of second-hand electric cars at the moment and the cost of new ones is high
287.	if someone wants a second-hand electric car, they may have concerns about the age and remaining life of the battery
288.	Bring the price of electric cars to a level that everyone can afford it
289.	there is an issue with older houses not having the same electrical infrastructure as newer ones.
290.	some people installed computerized radiators in their house and suggests that this type of technology should be subsidized.
291.	the government could offer people thermal imaging cameras to help them identify areas where their houses are losing heat.

